The concept of immutability and the practice of returning copies of internal state are central to many design principles in object-oriented programming, especially when it comes to ensuring data integrity and minimizing unexpected side effects. Let's delve into this in more detail:

What is Immutability?

Immutability means that once an object is created, its state cannot be changed. Any modifications will result in the creation of a new object. Immutable objects are inherently thread-safe and have several other benefits.
Why Return a Copy Instead of the Actual Array?

Arrays in Java are mutable. This means that if you return a direct reference to an internal array (like gridState), the caller can modify the contents of that array, thereby indirectly altering the internal state of your object.
By returning a copy of the array, you're ensuring that even if the caller modifies the returned array, the internal state of your SudokuGame object remains unchanged.
Benefits of Immutability:

Predictability: With immutable objects, you can be confident that they won't change state unexpectedly, leading to fewer bugs.
Thread Safety: Immutable objects can be safely shared between threads without worrying about concurrent modifications causing unexpected behaviors or data corruption.
Data Integrity: Ensures that the internal state of an object remains consistent and valid. For instance, in the context of the SudokuGame, it prevents external actors from putting the grid into an invalid state.
Easier to Reason About: When working with immutable objects, you don't have to track changes to the object over time, making the codebase easier to understand and maintain.
Practical Example:
Imagine a scenario where you return the actual gridState array. Another part of the code might unknowingly do something like this:

java
Copy code
int[][] grid = sudokuGame.getGridState();
grid[0][0] = 10;  // An invalid value for a Sudoku game
This action would inadvertently modify the internal state of your SudokuGame object, introducing a value that's not valid in a Sudoku game. By returning a copy, such inadvertent modifications are avoided.

Trade-offs:

One trade-off to consider is performance. Creating a copy of the array consumes additional memory and takes extra time. However, in many cases, the benefits of data integrity and predictability outweigh these costs.
In summary, ensuring immutability by returning copies of internal data structures is a strategy to protect the internal state of objects, making them more robust and less prone to bugs